It could be argued that before the 
, the Indian carmaker did not really have a premium hatchback - well at least that's what 
 itself says. In my view, the Indica and then the Indica Vista (later the Bolt) that sold alongside it was Tata's answer to the likes of the Hyundai Getz - India's first premium hatchback. So - interpret that as you will, but for what its worth the Tata Altroz is here and ready for launch. Tata is calling it the gold standard, and so today I intend to test that claim. And oh yeah - it's named after an albatross. In case you'd missed that earlier.
The car is pretty attractive as premium hatchbacks go and stays true to the 45X concept it as based on. And you get some interesting design details, which are rather distinctive. There is a black sill along the waistband that travels below the window line and there's also extensive use of glossy black in the tailgate and front grille. It is also not a flat surface anywhere, and is either recessed, or sharply concave - adding a dynamic and very different look to the car. The rear door handle is kind of like the Swift's - yup its 'up there' but it's a catch release style one, meaning the handle does not come out - I actually like it this way. So it's a really clean rear door as a result - a designer's dream! The metal carries through a lot of musculature, which comes into an almost exaggerated fender up front. Love it. In the face, there is a lot of familiarity, because you see the evolution of Tata's design. In many ways, it looks like the next generation of a car like the Bolt or the Indica Vista. To me it's a good thing like I reckon it shows a sort of growth journey for the same brand. Overall the exterior design is edgy, sharp and clutter-breaking.  
I got my hands on two cars - the Altroz diesel and petrol - dressed in Downtown Red and High Street Gold respectively. The latter is the positioning colour you will see on the ads and billboards. I will begin by taking the red one on the road. We are in Jaisalmer, heading in the direction of Longewala close to the India Pakistan border - the scene of the epic and unbelievable battle, which you should google; especially if you escaped the cheesy Bollywood telling of it! The roads here are excellent, good tarmac, some undulations and corners - and hardly any traffic. Perfect for testing this one.  
The diesel is very good to drive overall though, and the big reason for that is the added heft only compliments the excellent ride quality and handing. While I would shave off just a few points on handling, the ride is absolutely impressive. The car feels premium, big and sophisticated in its road manners. If the ride quality is the one big takeaway for me, well the second one is the gearbox. I like how it's been mated to this engine. You don't need frequent gear changes as well, even in city traffic and out in the highway it coasts quite nicely too.  

 

The car gets two drive modes, which you can toggle with this button at the base of the gearshift. It's like what we have seen on some other Tata models, and so you get City and Economy modes. You're better off staying in City mode though!

 

What stick out like a sore thumb though - something that is probably a bigger deal for me than others! Well it is because this is a premium hatchback, that I wonder why the steering is only adjustable for height and not for reach. It should be telescopic. Most of the competition cars do have it. The Altroz should have had it too. Overall the cabin is roomy and well appointed in terms of features. But there's a lot more to talk about, so let's pullover, shall we?  
The car's big USPs on the inside are ambient lighting, automatic climate control, 7" floating touchscreen with a Harman entertainment system, rear camera, and a 7" digital instrument cluster. Then there's Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, Cruise control, auto wipers and auto headlamps, push button start and the start-stop fuel saving system. A lot of these are only the preserve of the top two of the 4 variants on offer. The same is true for the LED daytime running lights and alloy wheels on the outside. A black contrast dual tone roof is optional on the top end XZ variant only. The good news is that dual airbags and ABS are standard. Given Tata's commitment to structural safety - I expect a good crash rating for the Altroz, though have no validation as yet.  
There are 4 different trim levels that the Altroz comes in. But that is not all. It's the first time that a manufacturer is also offering different factory fitted customisation packs - and that too across all the variants. So the four packs are called Rhythm, Luxe, Style and Urban. They allow you to add say a 3.5" touchscreen to the base variant, or the 7" to the mid. You can also get the contrast roof on the 3rd variant, or the leather wrapped steering, or even the arm rests and reverse camera. There are many more features the packs will get you, and its all factory fitted, and not accessorised at the dealer end. Yes that will take some detailed understanding and its own review I think. But great move from Tata and one I think buyers will really appreciate. Hope the dealers can explain it to them, is all! Okay now let's get to that petrol as promised!
The petrol engine is a 3-cylinder - the one we know from the Tiago. Like the diesel, this too is now BS6 compliant. The engine is surprisingly energetic, but lacks the feel of ample power. Yet most buyers will find it adequate - especially for city use.  And here I mist point out that on day one I drove the petrol briefly and found it to be lacking in power, performance and just plain boring. And I was about to write it off and lament the choice of the 3-pot, when I am now driving a different petrol car on the second day - and it is literally like a whole different car. A lot more zippy, suddenly not seeming inadequate, and overall a lot more fun. So why the inconsistency? I did ask Tata's engineers this  and they promised to look at both cars and give me some feedback. They do assure me that car two is the "regular" petrol Altroz - but of course they would say that! I am still awaiting that feedback, in case you are wondering!  
And what is more - the market is shifting towards petrol again anyway, and it just makes sense to have two petrol offerings as a USP. In many ways cars like the EcoSport, Venue and Seltos have even made it a norm. Okay those are all SUVs - all the more reason Tata could play this as a trump card. This is especially true when it comes to decisions about the automatic Altroz - which frankly should already have been ready to launch. As far as automatic goes, I had a chance to speak with Tata's senior management here and they've shared that there is an automatic coming. It's only on petrol and it will not be an AMT. Thank God! And that makes sense - premium hatchback, remember? So it can't be a basic gearbox and will have to be something sophisticated. So expect a dual-clutch or a CVT - something that helps to match yup the likes of the Baleno CVT or i20 auto.  
Okay so there is plenty going on here on the Altroz, but I suspect the biggest strategy from Tata would be to undercut the competition on pricing. All this - the sexy styling, that exhaustive feature list and the decent performance attribute - but at prices that seem like a steal. It's a beat Tata missed with the Harrier I suspect. And seeing that car suffer for lack of an automatic should be a learning to Tata as about 30 per cent of the premium hatch space is now auto. That said, I expect prices to start at about  ₹  5.10 lakh for the petrol and  ₹  6.20 lakh for the diesel. I also expect the top end XZ to be priced at about  ₹  7.35 lakh for the petrol and under  ₹  8 lakh for the diesel. Of course the additional packs and contrast roof options would add to that.
For the latest 
 and 
, follow CarandBike on 
, 
, and subscribe to our 
 channel.
