Amazing car for the family. Mileage in the city is around 18 after turning on the AC. Best in the segment but looks are not as good as Kwid.

Purchased CNG variant and I drive it daily for 100kms. Now my car readings are in 60,000kms. I must say it is a money-saving car. Small and fit in your budget. Until now there is no need of any special part change. Keep your car service ready when it's service time.

It is the best fuel-efficient car. Amazingly suits city driving. Grip and balance on the highway are pretty good.

Alto 800 is a very good looking car. I want to say that this is a family car, anyone can buy this car and this is a comfortable car.

The new bs6 variant has more boot space. They have a refined colour combination of interior earlier it was totally black. Runs very smoothly. Mileage 20km in the city.

Excellent car and amazing mileage. The air-con is great and the steering is nice. But lacks in some of the safety features like EBD and ABS. Quite affordable it is, more or less, the car is excellent.

Amazing performance and best in the budget and has low maintenance.

Better than older Maruti 800 as the interiors are awesome. Amazing security with 2 air-bags.

This car is very comfortable with a stylish look and triggered mileage.

Maruti Alto 800 is the best car for a small family of four people. Gives better milage as per the cost of the car.

Whatever written in this box has been genuine of my almost 2-year of experience. Indeed, it was quite easy and a good buying experience hassle-free at all I had been so glad. This car has been so lucky to me as far as my budget and maintenance to be concerned it was quite made for the low budget family car who is financially not so well. After purc...
I just love to ride Maruti Alto 800. It's awesome. Ac is so perfect that you won't feel tired. Whenever you take turn on road alto always gives you smooth turn without applying a lot pressure on steering. Moreover the outlook of Maruti is just great especially that of silver colour. It's gives a dynamic look. 

Maruti Alto 800 has got good mileage in limited budget, good car for small family, nice AC cooling, pickup is good, power window, good space, from company side- time to time received updates for example - insurance, service staff supporting, good test drive before hand over to owner I am very happy with Maruti. Thank you all for the support.

Top car mileage and the gear shift is just awesome like butter. However, on highways, while overtaking it is not much efficient.

One of the best car in my life because this car is still there. It is best for the long drive because it gives great mileage with great pick-up and a low maintenance car forever. I suggest everyone for this car. I and my family are very impressed by this car. Thanks, Maruti.

The average very nice. I like this car because the average is very nice. The maintenance cost is also very low.

If you want to purchase your first car so Maruti Alto 800 is a good option because this car is value for money hatchback. The class car now available in all safety features like driver and passenger airbag, ABS, and parking sensors. Other features like inbuilt Bluetooth are just awesome.

Best car in mileage, pickup and its a 5 seater car, normal setting in the car with safe driving and braking is very good and ac/heater with 2 power window at the front, the best car.

Maruti Suzuki Alto 800 is the best family car. It is safe to drive and a very good service provided by the brand.

A good car for city and short weekend drives. Easy to drive in city traffic. Many service centers are available and low maintenance costs, as well as spare parts, are easily available.

Maruti Alto 800 is that entry-level car that got the ingredients right. Although its an 800 cc engine churning out only a 35 Hp that seems enough for lightweight chassis and, to be honest that's what one can get for around 3 lakhs. It would be misleading if I didn't mention which variant got the ingredients right and that would be the LXI variant. ...
I am owner of Maruti Suzuki Alto 800 is a very nice car, comfort level is ultimate, good mileage, very nice for long ride also. The best car from Maruti Suzuki in low budget. It's parts are available very easily at a very low cost. Alto 800 has an ultimate driving comfort for short drive and also for long drive.

I have been driving Maruti Alto 800 since 2010. It's comfortable and best for a small family. Good mileage and comfortable even during long drives. Low maintenance and no more tension. Good service will keep the car on phase. Check out the variations available. Red wine is the best color available. Best for any person. I have decided not to sell it...
Nice car for this segment and this price. I love it. This car is comfortable for 5 people and a small family.

Its the perfect car, I was looking for amazing ride, fantastic features, and super comfortable seat. I love it and there are advance saftety features. Also, there are extra airbags also.

Maruti Alto 800 is a good car for a middle-class family and if you are a new driver this is the best option to gain some driving experience. Now this car comes with advance safety features like driver and front passenger air bags. Good for a small family and it is good on Indian roads and good resale value in small cities.

Maruti Alto 800 is a good light car, which is loved by maximum families of our country. The car is excellent for all the middle-class families. The car has good looks and very easy to drive. The car is available in many variants and at an affordable price. 

Maruti Alto 800 is a very nice car, very comfortable and safe. Very nice looking and I had a good experience. It is my best car.

Maruti Alto 800 is an awesome car which gives super mileage. Maintenance cost is very low, the car can be serviced anywhere.

Maruti Alto 800 is running smooth and gives low maintenance yearly. This car is good.

